DOC-525 Migrate to Active-Active with Replica Of (#1208)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/rs/administering/database-operations/migrate-to-active-active.md

---
Title: Migrate a Database to Active-Active
description:
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
---
With [Active-Active databases]({{< relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/active-active.md" >}}), applications can read and write to the same data set from different geographical locations seamlessly and with latency less than 1 ms, without changing the way the application connects to the database.
Active-Active databases also provide disaster recovery and accelerated data read-access for geographically distributed users.

> If you have data in a single-region RS database that you want to migrate to an Active-Active database,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have data in a single-region Redis Enterprise Software database that you want to migrate to an Active-Active database,
```

you'll need to create a new Active-Active database and migrate the data into the new database as a [Replica Of](https://docs.redislabs.com/latest/rs/administering/active-passive/) the existing database.
This process will gradually populate the data in the Active-Active database.

> Before data migration starts, all data is flushed from the Active-Active database.

Reviewer 2: no need in that case, but it also might not be an empty DB

> Before data migration starts, all data is flushed from the Active-Active database.

Reviewer: @AlonMagrafta are you okay with me taking this text out of the article? If it's an automatic process and I think it might just confuse the user as it confused me.

> Before data migration starts, all data is flushed from the Active-Active database.

Reviewer 2: It should be mentioned somewhere on the page as a note, doesn;t have to be here.
Flush is considered a serious operation

> Before data migration starts, all data is flushed from the Active-Active database.

Reviewer: Ok. We will leave that warning just in case someone decides to use an existing A-A database instead of creating a new one.

> The data is migrated to the Active-Active instance where you enabled Replica Of, and then the Active-Active replication copies the data from that instance to the other Active-Active instances.

Reviewer: What other instances? This only explains about a source single-region database, and the new A/A database.

Reviewer 2: ![Image from iOS](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50071256/109620228-52138100-7b42-11eb-90d1-880d5a293808.jpg)
Does this explain it? BTW if we can generate such drawing to incorporate in the page that would be great.

Reviewer: I will look into creating a graphic. For now, I'm going to aim to reword for clarity.

> The data is migrated to the Active-Active instance where you enabled Replica Of, and then the Active-Active replication copies the data from that instance to the other Active-Active instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data is first migrated to the Active-Active instance where you enabled Replica Of, and then the data from that instance is copied to the other Active-Active instances.
```

Reviewer 2: @kaitlynmichaelredislabs It's actually an ongoing process. The "first step" doesn't need to get completed before the sync starts. Very quick they will happen simultaneously

Reviewer: Reworded to remove the order of events.

        ```sh
        <database name>: redis://admin:<database_password>@<database_endpoint>:<database_port>
        ```

        You can select the database that you want to use as the source.

    - For a source database in a different RS cluster:
        1. Log in to the Web UI of the cluster that hosts the source database.
        1. In **databases**, click on the database and go to **configuration**.
        1. Under **Endpoint**, click on **Get Replica Of source URL**.

            ![Replica Of source URL](/images/rs/replicaof-source-url.png)

        1. Click **Copy to Clipboard** to copy the URL of the source endpoint.

            If you want a different internal password, you can click **Regenerate Password**.

            {{< warning >}}
If you regenerate the password, replication to existing destinations fails until you update their configuration with the new password.
            {{< /warning >}}

        1. In the destination database, paste the URL of the source endpoint in the **Replica Of** box, and click ![Save](/images/rs/icon_save.png#no-click "Save").

        {{< note >}}

> For a source database on a different RS cluster,

Reviewer: Is there a reason you wouldn't want to compress the data and save bandwidth?

Reviewer 2: there is default recommended level of compression already on :)

Reviewer: They don't need to compress the data manually, since it's already done by default?

you can [compress the replication data]({{< relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/active-passive#data-compression-for-replica-of">}}) to save bandwidth.
        {{< /note >}}

    - For a source database in an OSS Redis cluster - Enter the URL of the source endpoint in the format:

        - If the database has a password -

            ```sh
            redis://:<redis_password>@<hostname>:<database_port>
            ```

            Where the password is the Redis password represented with URL encoding escape characters.

        - If the database has no password -

            ```sh
            redis://<hostname>:<database_port>
            ```

    {{< note >}}

> If you used the mDNS protocol for the cluster name (FQDN),

Reviewer: What happens if you don't meet the client mDNS prerequisites?

Reviewer 2: I guess you won't be able to reach the other clusters / resolve the FQDN to an IP

> make sure that the [client mDNS prerequisites]({{< relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/configuring/mdns.md" >}}) are met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [client mDNS prerequisites]({{< relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/configuring/mdns.md" >}}) must be met in order to communicate with other clusters.
```
@AlonMagrafta I want to make clear the consequence of not meeting the prerequisites. Do you think this is clear enough for the user?

    {{< /note >}}

1. Click **Update** at the bottom of the page.

> 1. When the synchronization icon turns green ![Synchronization complete](/images/rs/icon_sync_green.png#no-click "Synchronization complete"), the migration is complete.

Reviewer: How long does it take for the migration to complete?

Reviewer 2: Depends on the dataset size + network quality, can be minutes to hours

> 1. When the synchronization icon turns green ![Synchronization complete](/images/rs/icon_sync_green.png#no-click "Synchronization complete"), the migration is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When the synchronization icon turns green ![Synchronization complete](/images/rs/icon_sync_green.png#no-click "Synchronization complete"), the migration is complete. Note that migration can take minutes to hours to complete depending on the dataset size and network quality. 
```
